NOM-7 SSO documentation (#277)
neo4j/docs-ops-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/installation/sso/okta.adoc

= Okta Support
:description: Describes Okta IdP support in NOM SSO

> NOM server supports Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication using Okta Identity Provider (IdP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NOM server supports Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication using Okta Identity Provider (IdP)
```

with following OAuth2 Grant types:

* Implicit flow
* Authorization code flow
* PKCE flow (_Back channel token retrieval with PKCE verification_)

== Configure Okta Identity Provider (IdP) for SSO

> This document assumes user has access to an Okta Admin portal to setup the SSO Client Application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content of this page assumes you have access to an Okta Admin portal to setup the SSO Client Application.
```

    ** Add `\https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/okta-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Sign-in redirect URI`.
    ** Add `\https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Sign-out redirect URI`.
* Configure an `Authentication Policy` meeting your organization security requirements and add the NOM app integration created previously to the policy.
* It is recommended to create/assign two user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin and Read-only user roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.
* Assign `Groups` of the `Users` to the NOM app integration.
* Create a new `Authorization Server` with NOM Client application as the audience.
    ** If there are restrictions to create dedicated `Authorization Server`, the default one can be used.
    ** Enable OIDC scopes such as `openid`, `profile` and `email`
    ** Add a custom claim to the `Authorization Server` to include user groups in the Access token.
    ** If needed, add custom claims to map User profile data such as `firstName`, `lastName`, `email`.

== Configure NOM server for SSO with Okta IdP

> In addition to the xref:./configuration.adoc#_common_options[common options], the following additional configuration options are required for setting up SSO with Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the xref:./configuration.adoc#_common_options[common options], the following supplemental configuration options are required for setting up SSO with Okta.
```
As above, to avoid repetition.

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-secret`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_SECRET`
| Client Secret for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP for `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and `PKCE` grant types.
| `<secret>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.scopes`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_SCOPES`
| Comma-separated list of scopes to request during authentication.
The scope should contain the enabled scopes in the Okta `Authorization Server`.
| `email,profile,openid`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.issuer`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_ISSUER`
| Issuer URL of the Okta `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.
| `\https://<ORG>.okta.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.audience`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUDIENCE`
| Audience for validating the access token.
It is the audience configured for custom Okta `Authorization Server`. If using default server, it would be `api://default`.
| `<NOM_APP_URL>`
|===

== Example configuration

The following is an example configuration using environment variables to set up a single SSO configuration named `okta1` with `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` grant type

> and disable username/password login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example configuration using environment variables to set up a single SSO configuration named `okta1` with `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` grant type and disable username/password login.
```

If configuring for `IMPLICIT` grant type, don't set `client-secret`.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Make sure to quote variable values containing special characters such as `?` to prevent the shell from interpreting them.

Reviewer: As above, keep these consistent.

== Configure NOM server for SSO with Okta IdP

The following table describes additional configuration options required for setting up SSO with Okta.

[cols="<,<,<, <",options="header"]
|===
| Command line argument
| Environment variable name
| Description
| Example value

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-id`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_ID`
| Client ID for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP. Required for all grant types.
| `0oaw54wd6rJQ8lReH697`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-secret`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_SECRET`
| Client Secret for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP for `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and `PKCE` grant types.
| `<secret>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.scopes`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_SCOPES`
| Comma-separated list of scopes to request during authentication.
The scope should contain the enabled scopes in the Okta `Authorization Server`.
| `email,profile,openid`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.authority`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUTHORITY`
| Issuer URL of the Okta `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.

> | `\https://<ORG>.okta.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

Author: ```suggestion
| Authority URL of the Okta `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.
| `\https://<ORG>.okta.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`
```

Reviewer 2: Same as Auth0, not needed for Okta

= Okta Support
:description: Describes Okta IdP support in NOM SSO

NOM server supports Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication using Okta Identity Provider (IdP)
with following grant types:

* Implicit
* Authorization code
* PKCE (Authorization code based)

== Configure Okta Identity Provider (IdP) for SSO

This document assumes user has access to an Okta Admin portal to setup the SSO Client Application.

> Following is a typical process of setting up NOM SSO Client Application in Okta:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a typical process of setting up NOM SSO Client Application in Okta:
```

* Create a new app integration with _Sign-in method_ `OIDC - OpenID Connect` and _Application type_ `Single-Page Application`.
* Configure the new app integration with the following:
    ** Choose the _Grant type_ as `Implicit` or `Authorization Code`.

>     ** For `Authorization Code` _Grant type_, enable `Client Credentials` as we require Client ID & Secret for this flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ** For `Authorization Code` _Grant type_, enable `Client Credentials` as Client ID & Secret are required for this flow.
```

    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/okta-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Sign-in redirect URIs`.

>     ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Sign-out redirect URIs`.

Author: ```suggestion
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/okta-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Sign-in redirect URI`.
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Sign-out redirect URI`.
```

nit, reads better IMO

Reviewer 2: Yeah I was going for the actual name of the field in Okta but there are no screen shorts here to verify that and yes this reads better.

* Configure an `Authentication Policy` meeting your organization security requirements and add the NOM app integration created previously to the policy.

> * We recommend to create/assign 2 user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin & User roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.

Author: ```suggestion
* We recommend to create/assign 2 user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin and Read-only administrator roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.
```

> * We recommend to create/assign 2 user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin and Read-only administrator roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is recommended to create/assign two user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin and Read-only administrator roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.
```

* Assign `Groups` of the `Users` to the NOM app integration.
* Create a new `Authorization Server` with NOM Client application as the audience.
    ** If there are restrictions to create dedicated `Authorization Server`, the default one can be used.
    ** Enable OIDC scopes such as `openid`, `profile` and `email`
    ** Add a custom claim to the `Authorization Server` to include user groups in the Access token.
    ** If needed, add custom claims to map User profile data such as `firstName`, `lastName`, `email`.

== Configure NOM server for SSO with Okta IdP

The following table describes additional configuration options required for setting up SSO with Okta.

[cols="<,<,<, <",options="header"]
|===
| Command line argument
| Environment variable name
| Description
| Example value

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-id`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_ID`

> | Client ID for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP. Required for all Grant types.

Author: ```suggestion
| Client ID for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP. Required for all grant types.
```

| `0oaw54wd6rJQ8lReH697`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.client-secret`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_CLIENT_SECRET`

> | Client Secret for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP for `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and `PKCE` Grant types.

Author: ```suggestion
| Client Secret for the NOM SSO client configured in the IdP for `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` and `PKCE` grant types.
```

| Comma-separated list of scopes to request during authentication.
The scope should contain the enabled scopes in the Okta `Authorization Server`.
| `email,profile,openid`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.authority`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUTHORITY`
| Issuer URL of the Okta `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.
| `\https://<ORG>.okta.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.issuer`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_ISSUER`
| Issuer URL of the Okta `Authorization Server` which includes the `Authorization Server` ID.
| `\https://<ORG>.okta.com/oauth2/<AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID>`

| `app.sso.configurations.<CONFIG>.audience`
| `APP_SSO_CONFIGURATIONS_<CONFIG>_AUDIENCE`
| Audience for validating the access token.
It is the audience configured for custom Okta `Authorization Server`. If using default server, it would be `api://default`.
| `<NOM_APP_URL>`
|===

== Example configuration

The following is an example configuration using environment variables to set up a single SSO configuration named `okta1` with `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` Grant type
and disable username/password login.

> If configuring for `IMPLICIT` Grant type, don't set `client-secret`.

Author: ```suggestion
The following is an example configuration using environment variables to set up a single SSO configuration named `okta1` with `AUTHORIZATION_CODE` grant type
and disable username/password login.

If configuring for `IMPLICIT` grant type, don't set `client-secret`.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure to quote variable values containing special characters such as `?` to prevent the shell from interpreting them.

> This depends on the shell you are using.

Reviewer: Same as above.

    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>/okta-callback` (omit the port if using default 443) as the only `Sign-in redirect URI`.
    ** Add `https://<NOM_SERVER_HOSTNAME>:<NOM_SERVER_PORT>` as the only `Sign-out redirect URI`.
* Configure an `Authentication Policy` meeting your organization security requirements and add the NOM app integration created previously to the policy.

> * It is recommended to create/assign two user `Groups` to be mapped to NOM's Admin and Read-only user roles to keep the NOM server configuration simple.

Author: we named it "Read-only Administrator" in `modules/ROOT/pages/nom-user-management/index.adoc`, would you like to rename it?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, `"Read-only Administrator"` seems a bit strange

Author: then we need to change it everywhere, I can do that.
